Welcome everybody to Church Lionel Lakes.
It is great to have you all here today and all of you watching online wherever you might be.
Welcome.
Friends are a reminder for myself, a reminder for all of us that regardless, regardless of what life looks like for you, what you've experienced this week, man, we believe as a church that the best thing we can do is gather together in the name of Jesus and give a praise.
And so that is what we are going to do today.
So I want to invite you to all to stand on up and let's sing to our Savior.
Christ is my first foundation.
Everything around me
you
Jesus, that is what we believe.
God, that you are in control of it all.
Even when we don't understand the end or the how it all got here, but God, we give you it.
Jesus, and we want you to have your way and our hearts and our lives in our communities.
Jesus, can we put what you help us today to put our full and complete trust in you?
God, because we can.
Because you're there, you won't leave us for sake as God helped us today.
We need you, Jesus.
We need more of you.
So God, we ask this in your powerful and strong name.
Amen.
Everyone, thanks for singing with us and worshiping.
You can go ahead and take a seat.
This past June, God did something incredible.
He prompted you to give,
to see a need and meet a need.
And you gave over $2.9 million in one weekend to give away to our trusted partners here and around the world.
But that number is just the beginning.
One local partner, FreedomWorks, was able to both expand its capacity and invest in people.
Through their partnership with Second Harvest Heartland, they purchased and distributed resources to those facing food insecurity.
Another local partner, Urban Ventures, also felt an impact.
Kids and teens have come to Christ, received Bibles, and started Bible studies.
On the community front, they hosted their first national night out, gathering over 500 neighbors with bouncy houses, free haircuts, and school supplies.
That single night led to almost 90 families enrolling in their programs, proving the power of generosity.
Let's Zoom to Brainard, where Minnesota Adult and Team Challenge was able to build a brand new playground for their women's program, creating a safe and fun space for women to connect with their children and grandchildren.
Something as simple as a playground is making a profound difference.
And on the other side of the world, your generosity allowed us to partner with Samaritan's Purse to deliver critical aid to the most vulnerable in Israel,
Gaza and the West Bank.
The total raised was nearly three million dollars.
But the true total, it's immeasurable.
You prove that when we all give a little, God does immeasurably more.
Thank you for making a difference.
That is what making a difference looks like.
Our church showed up in an amazing way and your generosity made a massive impact.
Thank you for being a part of a church that says yes, yes to supporting what God is doing here locally and around the world.
And beyond that, when you give here to Eaglebrook, a portion goes to support local and global organizations, just like the ones we mentioned.
To learn more, go to eaglebrookchurch.com slash difference.
Hey, changing gears a bit.
Do you know what last Friday was?
It was National Quitters Day, meaning the day that everyone gives up on their New Year's resolutions.
Now, if you gave up on drinking less coffee or maybe eating fast food less, then whatever.
I mean, if you gave up sticking strictly to your budget or getting your steps in every day, then also whatever.
I'm not a life coach, I'm a pastor.
But if you had a goal to grow in your faith and get closer to Jesus, don't give up.
Maybe you recently put your faith in Jesus and you're just realizing that the struggles of this world are still there.
Don't give up.
Maybe your schedule is full and you're feeling overwhelmed.
Maybe you've been a believer for years and you become passive in your faith.
Don't give up.
If I could grab you by the shoulders and lovingly urge you to do one thing this year, it would be to grow closer to Jesus.
And as your church, we want to help you do that.
We are here to support you as you work out your faith and become more aware of the height, width, and depth of God's love for you.
And for that love,
to radically reorient the way that you see the world around you, to reframe the way that you look at the circumstances in your life.
The way that happens is by doing what Romans 12 says, to not be conformed to the patterns of this world, but to be transformed by the renewing of our mind.
The only way our minds get renewed is by constantly spending time with God in his word and growing in our faith.
If you find yourself wondering, how do I even do that?
Maybe you've tried in the past and it was difficult to stay consistent and faithful, or you're not even sure where to begin, then I want to invite you to join us on Monday, January 9th, which is tomorrow if you're watching this live, for an online experience called Next.
As in, you've put your faith in Jesus.
What's next?
We will talk about ways that you can grow in your faith and stick with it.
Next, meets over Zoom with myself and our online team to get all the info and to let us know you're coming, head to eaglebrookchurch.com slash next.
I hope I get a chance to meet you there.
And as you're doing that, I want to give you a heads up that this message coming up is about the birds and the bees.
Meaning if you have little ears in the room watching, you might be a good time for you to check out our Eaglebrook Kids content on YouTube.
But with that, you've been warned.
I hope you enjoy the rest of the service.
This week on Cabin Fever, a family weekend getaway.
couples navigating different stages of love and intimacy, while the crackling fire isn't the only thing heating up.
I'm enforcing a no PDA range within three feet.
I mean, at least probably six.
I think it's healthy to talk about love and... as he acts.
Why did she spell it out?
That makes it so much worse.
We're just in our honeymoon phase.
Sorry if that kind of makes you uncomfortable, you know?
Well, I'll tell you what I want to happen is grand babies.
I remember those days.
No, you don't.
And you have to look, two, three.
You know what?
I mean, that's great when young people are in love, but just breathe around.
You know, me, like that.
No, it can't be an after snowmobiling, and then be like, oh, and by the way, absolutely not.
Yeah, no.
Foot rub is always helpful, especially if you get the hand cream or something.
There's a lilac and jojoba that she likes.
I didn't know that's what it was called.
Yeah.
I read the ingredients, because I know you're allergic to the... Yeah, it's not good.
Oh boy, that's too good.
That's a good setup for today's topic.
But before we get there, just real quick, I know that so many of us have Minneapolis and the events that have been happening right here in our state on our heart over the course of this last week.
And just to let you know, we do too.
We've been praying about it, thinking about it, how to respond.
We have a campus there in Minneapolis, and that's
because we love the city.
And so if you live around our Minneapolis location, we wanna encourage you to get plugged in and bring the kind of hope that only Jesus can bring, and he does that best through the church.
And then for all of us, can we commit to just continuing to pray for wisdom and peace?
I was just telling someone here to say, I'm so thankful to be a part of a church that stays focused
on teaching God's word each and every week, and that's what we're gonna continue to do this weekend.
Well, today, as you saw, we are in week two of our series called Cabin Fever.
It's all about relationships, and today's message is specifically about sex.
Yes, I did draw the short straw in the teaching rotation here with this topic.
But maybe you didn't hear this, if you're just joining us for the message, but if you're not quite ready to have that birds and bees conversation with your kids, now's a good time to potentially move to another room, that said, whenever Jason and I talk about how often we should address this topic in church, we always come back to the same question.
If not here, then where?
Where else are we gonna talk honestly about healthy, biblical sexuality and boundaries and ethics, if not the church,
And if not God's word, then who are we listening to?
What voices are shaping us?
And that's often the first challenge with this topic.
We don't know who to listen to and how to talk about it.
I grew up in a home where saying the word sex basically was like cussing.
I think for a while, I even convinced myself that my parents never had sex to conceive me.
It's awkward to think and talk about.
And honestly, I don't blame my parents.
Most parents know how difficult it is to talk to their kids about sex, especially that first time.
I'll never forget sitting across from our oldest, our first born Maddox, who was nine years old at the time.
And we were sitting at Outback Steakhouse with the sex talk book open on the table, anatomical diagrams covered in a little bit of A1 sauce while he's really just locked in on one thing.
Is the cookie skillet here yet?
Or when Emily was pregnant with Miles and watching our eight-year-old daughter, Marley Pester, Emily with questions while poking her belly about how exactly did that happen?
It's not easy to talk to your kids, let alone anyone else about sex, largely in part.
For many of us, the messages that we heard ourselves growing up and sometimes even in the church didn't help.
As Ted Cunningham has said, that message was often something like, sex is dirty, nasty, and ugly.
Save it for the one you love.
Sounds amazing.
Can't wait.
So here's my hope for today.
Whether you're single, dating, married, a teenager, young adult, parent, or grandparent, we want to replace that one time awkward sex talk with a clear, healthy,
biblical dialogue about sex, because again, if the church didn't talk about it, culture will happily fill in the gaps.
The topic of sex is everywhere.
It's on our TVs, movies, music, social media, locker rooms, classrooms, school hallways, and pornography has only accelerated this conversation.
Seeing a split second accidental or intentional, anyone with a screen these days can be shaped
by this warped and distorted view of sex.
And then what happens is these images and conversations are then often held up as the standard.
Sex is a huge part of the world and a huge part of what it means to be human.
So the real question is it's not whether we'll be shaped, because we're going to be.
It's how we'll be shaped.
How do we develop a godly framework for understanding, practicing,
and engaging with sex well.
Well, let me tee this up with an illustration.
Last fall, I was doing some yard cleanup.
Or more accurately, I was watching someone do my yard cleanup.
Here's a just quick video of my buddy, Aaron.
You know, there is nothing quite like the sound of a friend firing up a chainsaw.
While you supervise from a distance and sip your cherry Coke Zero, it was glorious.
Well, after Aaron apparently decided that his job was done, I was left to clean up.
So I started hauling these mostly dead, soaking wet branches, still covered in pine needles and moss over to this tiny little fire pit that we had that we'd picked up on the side of the road.
And nothing would really burn.
So I added more lighter fluid, and then more branches, and then even more lighter fluid.
And then more dead branches, wet pine needles, all packed down so tightly there was no oxygen to give this thing life.
or breast, see what should have taken just a couple of hours, took an entire day and two full bottles of lighter fluid just to burn through this relatively small amount of brush.
Now why do I tell you that story?
Because fire is often used as an illustration for sex and for good reason.
And many of us are trying to fuel and build our understanding of sex with things like dead wet branches
And frankly, aren't burning well.
Now, what kinds of things am I referring to?
For instance, our understanding of sex has been shaped by unhelpful conversations.
Maybe for many of us know conversations.
There's distorted images that we see on Instagram, TikTok, Hollywood, pornography.
It's a massive issue in the world today.
There's shame and brokenness that we bring into our experience from past experiences.
Some chosen, others unwanted.
Some of us have had no boundaries when it comes to this conversation.
And then statistically, about one in seven marriages are considered sexless, which means never or rarely.
See, so many of us are trying to burn this fire of sex with a lot of poor material.
And so my sense coming into today is that many people are living under this pile of sexual confusion, frustration,
oppression or sin.
For some married couples, the fire is barely burning.
For some singles or dating couples, the fire is burning, but it's burning outside the boundaries that God has originally designed.
And so my prayer and my hope is that it is time to begin the healing process around this topic of sex.
How are we gonna do that?
The first thing is this, sex is God's idea.
It's not culture's invention.
It's not the enemy's creation.
Sex is a good gift from a good God.
In Genesis chapter two, verse 23, naked Adam stands across from naked, even says in kind of a poetic way at last.
The man exclaimed, this one is bone from my bone and flesh from my flesh.
She will be called woman because she was taken from man loosely translated, girl, you look good.
Before sin entered the world, the Bible says that these two human beings stood there naked and unashamed.
Not many of us can relate to that.
Then in Genesis chapter one, verse 28, God blesses Adam and even says, listen, be fruitful and multiply.
In other words, sex is God's idea to multiply his creation in the world and enjoy between a man and a woman.
It's a gift, he says.
So go use it within the boundaries that I've established, but instead of using it as the gift that God intended, what so often happens is that sex becomes one of two extremes for people.
It either becomes an idol or it becomes gross.
Now let's start with this idol.
When sex becomes an idol, pleasure takes priority over everything else, especially over what God thinks.
The mindset becomes no boundaries, no restrictions, no consequences.
Do whatever you want with whoever you want, whenever you want.
And by the way, watch whatever you want.
But Paul says in 1 Corinthians 10, he says, listen, don't worship false gods as some of them did.
As the scripture says, the people celebrated with feasting and drinking and they indulged in pagan revelry.
He was referring to these sexual orgies.
But we must not engage in sexual
immorality, now in Greek it's this word, Pornea, which he's using to describe a wide range of sexual immorality.
And then he says, don't do that as some of them did.
So to make something a God, which is what we do when we idolize something other than the God of the universe is to make it an idol.
And when that happens, we end up valuing the creative thing more than the creator of the thing.
Sex is good.
But it is not God.
While on the other extreme, some experienced sex is gross.
Perhaps because of past trauma, abuse, or some previous painful experiences.
For others, sex simply hasn't been that great.
Maybe they had hoped or were told if they saved themselves for marriage.
Marriage was going to mean mutually enjoyable sex.
And for whatever reason, that hasn't happened.
And finally, some believe the lie that
God wants Christ followers to be sexually boring, repressed, and stale.
I don't know what it is, but somewhere along the way, you may have come to believe the lie that God isn't that interested in your married sex life being good.
But here's the truth that Scripture keeps bringing us back to.
Sex should be good because God is good.
Sex is a good gift that God wants us to enjoy within the covenant of marriage.
And before we go any further, we also need to understand this.
Sex is far more than just a physical act.
You know, we're sold this lie over and over by the world that sex is no big deal.
Go ahead and get yours.
Lose your virginity whenever you want.
I mean, you gotta test drive it before buying it, am I right?
But Satan, the enemy of God's truth,
See, he wants us to believe the lie that sex is nothing more than just a physical transaction, but it's not just that.
Sex is so much more.
Sex is emotional and spiritual.
Matt Chandler in his book, The Mingling of Souls, explains that one of the Hebrew words used for sexual love in the Bible is this word, God, which means two souls mingling together.
It's not a transaction, it's just not just a physical exchange, but it's two souls mingling, joining together.
Now you've heard me say this next statement in several other messages, but I love how often this is becoming true.
Science is confirming what scripture has been saying all along.
Dr. Daniel, amen, in his book, Change Your Brain, Change Your Life writes this kind of long quote, but stick with me.
He says, whenever a person
is sexually involved with another person.
Neurochemical changes occur in both their brains that encourage limbic, emotional bonding.
Limic bonding is the reason that casual sex doesn't really work for most people on a whole mind and body level.
Two people may decide to have sex just for the fun of it, yet something is occurring on another level they might not have decided on at all.
Sex is enhancing an emotional bond between them
whether they want it to or not.
One person, and they says often the woman because scientifically their limbic system is larger than a man's, is bound to form an attachment and will be hurt when a casual affair ends.
Sex is not gross, it's not a God, it's not an idol, and it's also not casual.
Sex is God's idea.
And if it's meant to be a gift, then the real question becomes, how do we stoke this flame and build the fire of sex?
God's way.
Four ways, the first is this, protect the fire for marriage.
Again, if sex is like a fire, then boundaries are not punishment.
They are protection.
Fire inside a fireplace brings warmth, light, and life.
Fire outside the fireplace can potentially burn the house down.
Same fire, different locations, completely different outcomes.
Scripture is incredibly consistent on this point.
Sex was designed to burn within the covenant of marriage.
Song of Songs, chapter two, verse seven says, promise me.
Promise me not to awaken love until the time is right.
Now, Jason shared this last week, but this phrase, do not awaken love until the time is right is repeated multiple times throughout the song of songs.
God's not anti-desire, but he's very pro-timing.
Solomon, the author of that verse, and this Proverbs, chapter five says this, drink water from your own well.
Share your love only with your wife.
Oh, I spill the water of your springs in the streets having sex with just anyone.
You should reserve it for yourselves.
Never share it with strangers.
This isn't about God with holding joy.
It's about God protecting the boundaries for intimacy because sex outside of marriage is a weight that we were never as God's original intent designed to carry.
Song of Song, chapter four, verse 12, it celebrates the day these two lovers, this man and woman come together, finally get married and have sex and says, you are a garden locked up, my bride.
You are a spring enclosed, a sealed fountain.
They're celebrating virginity.
And the fact that they have saved themselves for this marriage.
Now, some of you are thinking and I get this, you've got to be kidding.
I mean, who waits to have sex until they're married these days?
Now, unfortunately, statistically and anecdotally, not many.
A generation or two ago, marriage used to be the cornerstone.
You know, many of our grandparents or great grandparents, they like met, started dating, got engaged and married in the same week, you know?
Well, now a marriage seems to be the capstone.
Well, let's do all these other things first, have sex, live together, join bank accounts, maybe get a dog all before making it official.
Now listen, I'm not saying that we should go back to the days where you get married to the person you met that same day, okay?
But we're delaying marriage so long that we're getting things out of order and it's not making marriages any better.
According to a study done by the National Institute of Health, not a Christian organization, those who have premarital sex have twice the odds of getting divorced later.
Why?
Because sex was given to be used within the boundaries of a godly covenantal marriage.
And the biggest reason comes back to that Hebrew word that I shared earlier.
It's that word, God, the mingling of souls.
Whether we want it to happen or not when we have sex with another person, our souls mingle together and that mingling leaves a mark.
It leaves an imprint, a tie that becomes difficult to untangle.
Now before I go any further with this point, I know that so many people here are married but had sex before marriage.
Whether it's with your current spouse or other people, there are others here.
who aren't married, but still engaging in sexual activity.
And if this is you, let me share from personal experience, nothing is beyond the power of Christ to restore what's been lost, not a thing, but nothing will change without confession and repentance.
So if you fall in short in this way at all, confess to God first, receive his forgiveness.
Scripture says he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and purify us from all in righteousness.
But then repent.
Turn the other way from whatever sexual sin that's happening and head toward Jesus.
And then finally, James chapter five verse 16 says, confess your sins to each other and pray for each other that you may be healed.
The earnest prayer of a righteous person has great power and produces wonderful results.
See, when it comes to this topic, we need each other for support.
We can't hide this thing.
I've got a couple of friends who will reach out to me when they're feeling tempted in some way, whether it's to go further than they should or to look at something that they shouldn't.
Why?
Because they want to protect the fire before and within marriage.
And too often, even Christians, longtime followers of Christ, public facing Christians, they become complacent in their marriage.
And it's because they weren't protecting the fire.
They find themselves having an affair or worse.
And it just breaks me.
I don't want that to happen to anyone.
So if you're married, make confession a regular part of your life.
I try to make it a regular part of mine.
Do it to God and with other people.
If you aren't married, the protection here is to commit to abstain from sex and weight.
Oh, bay God.
And I've got some good news for you.
Because whenever I do premarital counseling, which is often, whenever we challenge as pastors, challenge couples to abstain,
and wait almost all of them agree.
Because what I see in young people is a generation of faith filled, inspired Christ followers who want to be different.
They want to be better.
So wait, protect the fire.
Don't look to sex to fill that deep longing in your soul, whether it's before marriage or during marriage.
Give your energy, passion and devotion
to God instead and you and potentially your future marriage must do whatever it takes to protect the fire.
Second way to build a sex life God's way is to fuel the fire with words.
Because fire doesn't just need protection, it needs fuel.
And one of the most overlooked fuels for a healthy married sex life are words.
Song of Songs chapter four versus one through four shows us this
beautifully.
I just want you to see how this man lavishes affirming words on his bride.
He says, how beautiful you are, my darling.
Oh, how beautiful.
Your eyes behind your veil are doves.
Your hair is like a flock of goats descending from the hills of Gilead.
Now,
We laugh, in Hebrew culture, women used to pin their hair up during the day when they'd enter the bedroom.
They would pull the pin, their hair would flow down, apparently like a flock of goats.
Don't use that one, man, I don't know.
Next verse, your teeth are like a flock of sheep, just shorn, coming up from the washing.
Each has its twin, not one of them is alone.
In other words, no missing teeth.
All clean, straight, all there, that's good news, no breathment required, going on.
Your lips are like a scarlet ribbon.
Your mouth is lovely.
Your temples behind your veil are like the halves of a pomegranate.
Your neck is like the tower of David's strong, built with course of stone.
On it hang a thousand shields, all of them shields of warriors.
Now he's affirming not just her physical beauty, but her inner strength and confidence.
Confidence and beauty comes from such a deeper place, much more than outward appearance.
And then, I'm not sure my parents will even allow me to read this verse in church, but here we go, your breasts are like two fawns, like twin fawns of a gazelle that brows among the lilies.
The female body is beautiful.
God designed it that way so men respect it, affirm it, be kind towards it, use your words.
Now women, I've got something to say to you.
Do you know
that many of us men still want to be affirmed physically to by our wives.
That we still stand in front of the mirror hoping beyond hope to see an eight pack instead of the keg that's there.
So let me just say this, even though most men won't admit it, if you look at your husband once in a while and give a simple hubba hubba, whoa baby.
or when did you become Ryan Gosling or whatever, you know, I don't, maybe don't say that one, I don't know, that's awkward.
Whatever phrase communicates attraction, I'm telling you who will carry that with him for months on end, suddenly a flex in the mirror will just look a little better coming back towards him.
And of course, I think you know this, but feeling the fire with words is so much more than just physical affirmation.
It also means asking questions of one another.
listening intently to the answers, looking each other in the eyes without a phone around and communicating feelings with more than just one word or a grunt.
I've taught this before, and I'll continue to teach this, but great marriages require sex-pectation conversations.
This is an ongoing dialogue about mutually satisfying
Sex, that means learning to say things like, this isn't easy.
I feel insecure.
I love it when.
I want to grow in this together.
It even means having conversations with each other about how often you expect to have sex.
Healthy communication, it doesn't kill desire, it creates trust.
And trust is the oxygen of intimacy, silence, smothers,
the fire words breathe life into it, so we've got to learn to fuel it.
Third way to build a sex life God's way is to tend the fire with intention.
You know, sex doesn't flourish by accident.
Well, one of the biggest lies that we believe is that great sex should just happen, but every healthy fire requires intentional care.
You don't light a fire once and then just expect it to burn forever without paying attention to it.
Paul writes in 1 Corinthians chapter 7, he says, the husband should fulfill his marital duty to his wife, and likewise, the wife to her husband.
The wife does not have authority over her own body, but yields it to her husband.
In the same way, the husband did not have authority over his own body, but yields it to his wife.
Do not deprive each other, except perhaps by mutual consent and for a time so that you may devote yourselves to prayer, then come together again so that Satan will not tempt you because of your lack
of self-control.
Now, let me be really clear here.
Paul is not using transactional or controlling language.
This is intentional language.
This doesn't give free license over each other's bodies without mutual consent and healthy boundaries.
Our spouse is not a sexual object to consume, but scripture does assume that sexual intimacy within marriage requires intentionality and effort.
Now, what does that look like in real life?
Here's just a couple of ways.
It means prioritizing sex amid busy schedules, fighting distraction, exhaustion and resentment.
And it means choosing pursuit even when feelings fluctuate, which happens.
Satan loves to distort this message.
He loves to distort the message of sex.
He's been doing it for generations who continue to do it.
And the way he distorts it if you're single is that the lie is that sex is no big deal, so go have a lot of it.
And then if we're married, the lie is that sex is no big deal, so if you're tired, busy, or uninterested, don't have much of it.
Either way, the result is the same.
It's a lack of care and intention.
The fire doesn't go out quickly, it goes out slowly, or burns haphazardly over a long period of time if we aren't paying attention.
to it, so married couples.
That means sometimes you gotta stay up later after the kids go to bed.
Sometimes you gotta get up earlier.
Sometimes you gotta put it on the calendar.
You might think that's not how it works in the movies.
Sex just happens passionately and randomly, doesn't it?
I'd say wait until you have a 14 year old who knows exactly what's happening when the door closes.
A 10 year old who wants to crawl into bed
all the time, and a one and a half year old who keeps you constantly on the move.
Sometimes you follow through, even when you're tired, fighting or not at your best.
Now for us, we even use code words around our kids.
We say that we're gonna watch The Office, which helps because it's also our favorite TV show, so it gets really confusing.
Are we really gonna watch The Office or watch The Office?
I don't know, it's gonna be, don't tell our kids that that's our code word, all right?
Because we watch a lot of, well, anyway, so I don't wanna say that.
I meant the TV show that time, yeah.
Now I'm gonna get red.
All right, married couples.
The point is refuse to drift.
We all have to be intentional.
Now, if you're single or dating, to be intentional means you can't watch a movie horizontal on the couch late at night.
It means when that guy slides into your DMs at 10.30 p.m. and says he wants to talk and hang out, sometimes you just gotta
Click the block button.
Gotta tend the fire with intention.
But tending the fire isn't only sexual.
Contrary to popular belief, intimacy is not built primarily through sex.
Intimacy is built before sex.
Alice Freileen makes a case for waiting to have sex.
And she wrote this, that's fantastic.
She says sex is an expression of intimacy.
Not the means to intimacy.
True intimacy springs from verbal and emotional communion.
True intimacy is built on a commitment to honesty, love, and freedom.
True intimacy is not primarily a sexual encounter.
Intimacy, in fact, has almost nothing to do with our sex organs, and then she uses an example.
A prostitute may expose her body, but her relationships are hardly intimate.
Single or dating, if you can't build
intimacy without sex with your partner, that should be a warning sign.
My wife is my best friend.
We enjoy sex, but more than anything, we enjoy hanging out with one another.
We enjoy talking about what Jesus is doing in our lives and doing ministry together, challenging one another, laughing with one another.
Our most intimate moments are non-sexual.
That's why I married couples.
The way to build a great sex life is to tend to the relationship in non-sexual ways.
Pursue your wife, plan a date night, surprise your spouse with a gift, affirm with words, have fun, serve one another, lead the way spiritually, pursue Jesus together, go to church together, offer non-sexpectation, touch, give him a background rub with nothing,
hoping for in return, love them through their love language.
By the way, let me make a quick plug.
Next week, Ted Cunningham is here to talk about love languages and take us deeper into this conversation.
I tell people all the time, Ted Cunningham is the leading expert when it comes to all things marriages in the country, and he will be here next week talking about our love languages.
Don't miss that, but tend the fire with intention.
Okay, the last way.
to build a sex life.
God's way is this.
It's to center the fire on Christ.
This is so important that we end with this because here's the foundation beneath everything that we've talked about today.
When Christ is not at the center, sex either becomes gross or becomes an idol or becomes a gift or a source of shame.
Jesus says in Matthew 6, 33, he says, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.
See, when Christ is first, sex has the best chance, not a guarantee, unfortunately, but it has the best chance of finding its proper place.
Why?
Because sex that no longer carries the weight of identity, validation, or healing.
Jesus carries that weight.
That's when sex can become a gift.
Not gross, not God, not casual, just good.
Romans 12.1 says, offer your bodies as a living sacrifice holy and pleasing to God.
I find that many people are willing to sacrifice quite a bit for God.
But one of the things they often withhold is their own sexual desires.
But offering ourselves to God as a living sacrifice includes all the things, including our sexual desires, our boundaries, even our wounds and our past experiences.
God asks us to surrender it all to Him.
And when we do, He doesn't diminish joy, He deepens it.
So if you're married, go enjoy sex, protect it, fuel it, tend to it,
If you're single, choose Jesus over your sexual desires.
I know there's a cost and I know it's not easy, but you gotta ask yourself, do you want Jesus or do you want what the world is selling?
And then for those of you, if sex has been painful or absent, confusing or broken in some way, shape or form, which is
So many of us, including me, hear this clearly.
There is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus.
No condemnation.
See, nothing restores the gift of sex like putting God back in his rightful place.
Don't pursue sex.
Don't even pursue the perfect relationship.
Pursue God, married or not.
Strengthen your relationship with Jesus.
Make Him your first priority, your first love, your ultimate concern.
Sex is, it's good.
But I'm here to remind you of what matters most.
Jesus is better.
Let me pray.
Heavenly Father,
Thank you for the gift of being able to gather and worship, to be a part of a community of people who are doing their very best to seek after you.
Whether it's with a really profound and deep faith, whether it's for the very first time, whether it's with a bunch of questions.
What I love is that we're a community of people, we're a gathering of churches who get together and ultimately do our best to hear your word
and follow you.
So we pray that we would do that to the very best of our ability.
There's an original God-given design for sex that is so very difficult to follow this side of eternity.
And yet you offer us a clear way forward and so help us to obey you to follow you in all these ways.
But for those who have fallen short, for those who continue to
find themselves outside of the boundaries that you designed.
I pray, God, that they would feel a sense of that you want the best for them, that there isn't condemnation if they put their faith in you, but instead there's an offering of hope and challenge and a way forward, that they wouldn't leave here with a sense of shame, but instead would leave here with a renewed hope.
to continue to pursue you, to continue to obey you, to do what they can to follow you in all ways, including in this area of sex.
God, we love you.
We're so grateful for your truth and your grace, and we pray that we continue to be people who show the world what it's like to follow you.
We pray all this in Jesus' name.
Amen, amen.
Hey, if you like prayer, we'll be prayer team down front.
Otherwise, don't miss next week with Ted Cunningham.